What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?  A system git file is created and git creates a repository structure with the files already in the directory.  This is a necessary first step before actually commencing version control through commit commands.

How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository?  What value do you think it offers?  The staging area holds those new files from the working directory that will soon be added to the version control repository.  The staging area helps a developer keep track of each file that will be part of the next commit.  Without a staging area, the developer would be forced to browse through a directory and depend on memory to know which files have been changed and should be included in the next commit.

How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?  Files can be added to the staging area as work progresses on a given "logical" change to the application.  Once all the changes that comprise the "logical" change have been completed, a "diff" command should be executed to review and make sure that all the necessary files have been added to the staging area.  It is at this point that the staging area is complete and ready for the next commit that will transfer the changes to the main repository.

What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? How would branches help?
Branches are helpful when attempting to mold the application with distinct features while at the same time keeping an unchanged master copy.  Examples of this are changing the application from English to a foreign language, or developing an easy mode version of a game application.  Branches allow application development to progress in a different path without altering the progression of the main application.  Once the branch is fully developed, tested, and accepted, it can be re-integrated into the main application as an additional feature.

How to the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?
The diagrams provide a clear visual representation of the specific locations where a progression of commits branch of from the main commit structure.  The diagrams add context to the log listings and helps a developer better understand how a new feature progression relates to the whole application.